README.md, before:

# afix

Automatic software repair excercise in [Crystal](http://crystal-lang.org) for [eci2015](www.dc.uba.ar/events/eci/2015/cursos/monperrus).

It searches for fixes adding +1/-1 to integers assignments.

They were indeed [bugs](https://github.com/manastech/crystal/commit/ed6d3d1be8ff71fd428b65d040475a1d1b7f1d0e) that could have been solved by this technique in Crystal. This bug is ported in `sample/markdown.cr`

## Sample1

```
$ crystal sample/sample1.cr
$ crystal src/instrument.cr -- sample/sample1.cr
$ crystal src/fix_finder.cr -- ./sample/sample1.afix.cr
$ patch -p1 < sample/sample1.cr.patch
$ crystal sample/sample1.cr
```

## Markdown sample

```
$ crystal sample/markdown.cr
$ crystal src/instrument.cr -- sample/markdown.cr
```

The instrumentation is greedy. It covers the whole file making the search space pretty huge. To mimic an instrumentation only on the expressions stressed on the failing test case:

```
"only":["i2","i3","i5","i6","ia","ib","ii","ij","ik","il","im","i11","i14","i15","i1d","i1e","i1j"] ~ 20min 24057tries
```

narrowing 5 more expressions for demo

```
"only":["ib","ii","ij","ik","il","im","i11","i14","i15","i1d","i1e","i1j"] ~ 6seg 99tries
```

(this can be added to `.afix.json` file)

```
$ crystal src/fix_finder.cr -- ./sample/markdown.afix.cr
$ patch -p1 < sample/markdown.cr.patch
$ crystal sample/markdown.cr
```

Commit message:

add documentation for extracting the trace

README.md, after:

# afix

Automatic software repair excercise in [Crystal](http://crystal-lang.org) for [eci2015](www.dc.uba.ar/events/eci/2015/cursos/monperrus).

It searches for fixes adding +1/-1 to integers assignments.

They were indeed [bugs](https://github.com/manastech/crystal/commit/ed6d3d1be8ff71fd428b65d040475a1d1b7f1d0e) that could have been solved by this technique in Crystal. This bug is ported in `sample/markdown.cr`

## Sample1

```
$ crystal sample/sample1.cr
$ crystal src/instrument.cr -- sample/sample1.cr
$ crystal src/fix_finder.cr -- ./sample/sample1.afix.cr
$ patch -p1 < sample/sample1.cr.patch
$ crystal sample/sample1.cr
```

## Markdown sample

```
$ crystal sample/markdown.cr
$ crystal src/instrument.cr -- sample/markdown.cr
```

The instrumentation is greedy. It covers the whole file making the search space pretty huge. To mimic an instrumentation only on the expressions stressed on the failing test case and the following key/value to `.afix.json` file.

```
"only":["i2","i3","i5","i6","ia","ib","ii","ij","ik","il","im","i11","i14","i15","i1d","i1e","i1j"] ~ 20min 24057tries
```

narrowing 5 more expressions for demo

```
"only":["ib","ii","ij","ik","il","im","i11","i14","i15","i1d","i1e","i1j"] ~ 6seg 99tries
```

```
$ crystal src/fix_finder.cr -- ./sample/markdown.afix.cr
$ patch -p1 < sample/markdown.cr.patch
$ crystal sample/markdown.cr
```

# Trace approximation

Make the `.afix.cr` file start with

```
require "../src/monitor"
require "../src/trace"
AfixMonitor.load(ARGV[0])
```

Run the failing test only, extract the monitors keys, etc.

```
crystal spec sample/markdown.afix.cr:773 sample/markdown.afix.json | uniq | sort
```
